[SWOOSH]
[AUDIO LOGO]
[CHEERING]
>> Biohacking.
[INTENSE MUSIC]
It's not just about being well.
It's about being more than well.
It's the power to
transform yourself.
Are we ready?
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is "Biohacking."
[SOFT MUSIC]
Hi.
I'm Dave Asprey, the
father of biohacking.
The media calls me that because
I started a global movement
of biohacking more
than 10 years ago
and it's become a new word
in the English language.
In this episode, I'll teach you
about the benefits of fasting,
the different types
of fasting, as well as
hacks to make your
fasts more enjoyable
and to give you more benefits.
And this is really
important, to make sure
that you don't over-fast.
It's entirely possible
to fast too much
and stress your body
out just like you
can do the keto diet too much.
So it's really important
to fast for you, not fast
according to some strict
thing that you heard online.
Fasting is important
because it helps
you unlock biological
resources hidden in your body.
Your body will only
do certain things
when there's no food present.
I want you to learn to
break away from the belief
that if you skip a
meal, you will actually
be in danger of starving or
that you'll be miserable.
I have tried every form of
fasting, and fasting itself
just means to go without.
Your body is going to tell
you that you need something,
but the reality is
that you just want it.
The reality is also that you
can likely go for 60 days
without food, and
you're not going to die.
Yet, your body tells
you that if you
don't have tacos in
a half hour, you're
going to starve to death.
Clearly, there's a mismatch.
Intermittent fasting puts you
in charge of your own desires.
Fasting is not about suffering,
and intermittent fasting
is different than
longer term fasting.
What you get when
you fast is you
get regulation of
your insulin levels.
High insulin levels are
linked to higher risk
of dying from all causes.
When you have more energy coming
into your body than going out,
your body will turn glucose
into fat and then store it.
Your pancreas becomes
overworked and your body
becomes insulin-resistant.
There was a study in 2018 that
found that time-restricted
feeding--
in other words,
intermittent fasting--
improved insulin sensitivity.
It lowered insulin levels
compared to eating in a normal
12-hour-a-day window.
Experimental and control groups
ate exactly the same amount
of calories.
So this is important.
People have been
telling you calories in
and calories out is how
you lose weight forever,
but here, we had two groups
of people eating exactly
the same things, just
shifting when they ate them,
and they got different results.
So this study alone
absolutely destroys that story
that you have heard
your entire life,
that the amount of calories you
eat determines how fat you are.
There are many things
that determine that,
and the number of calories is
not that important compared
to these other variables.
One thing that fasting does
is it triggers autophagy.
What is autophagy?
Well, this is your
body's process
of finding the weak
cells that need replacing
and then replacing them.
It's sort of like a team who
would go through Las Vegas
and unscrew all the light bulbs
that were dimming or almost out
and then replacing them
with new light bulbs.
You want to do this
throughout your body
so you can stay
young and strong,
and you won't actually
turn on autophagy
if you're eating breakfast,
lunch, and dinner seven days
a week forever.
Studies show that
triggering autophagy
helps to slow down aging
and it reduces inflammation.
Another thing you
might have heard about
is NAD, which is an
anti-aging supplement.
Intermittent fasting
increases your levels of NAD.
NAD is a major
anti-aging molecule
that repairs DNA damage, keeps
your proteins properly shaped,
and it protects your cells
from oxidative stress.
Another study out of
MIT showed 24 hours
of fasting improved stem cell
regeneration, and fasting also
improves your microbiome,
the number and type
of bacteria in your gut.
When bacteria are
deprived of food,
they make something called
FIAF, Fasting-Induced Adipose
Factor, which is a hormone that
tells your body to stop storing
fat and start burning fat.
What that means is that
by strategically skipping
some meals at the
right time, you
can tell your gut
bacteria to tell your body
to burn more fat, and
that's super cool.
Fasting's also good
for your brain.
In animal studies, intermittent
fasting increases memory.
It increases learning.
It increases growth of new
neurons in your hippocampus.
A major fasting
researcher at USC
named Valter Longo showed
that fasting decreases
biochemical markers
for diabetes,
cardiovascular
disease, and cancer.
And let's face it.
Those are the big
three things that
are likely to take you out.
Seriously?
Skipping breakfast could
reduce your risk of that?
Well, yeah.
But fasting isn't
a new thing either.
Our ancestors fasted
often, and they did this
because they were
opportunistic eaters
and they didn't
have refrigerators.
So there were times when
there either wasn't any food
or there wasn't much food.
And when the food was gone,
they hunted for more food,
and they ate the
few nontoxic plants
that they could eat
as a way to fill
in the spaces between
high-nutrient animal meals.
They were hungry,
but they were fine
going a few days with
less food or without food,
just like you and
I actually can be.
So humans have
feasted and fasted
for we think about
290,000 years,
but it's probably
more than that.
And eventually, we
learned how to farm,
and you could have
a meal every day.
You could have
three of them a day.
And that's what the
Industrial Revolution did.
The people who ran
the factories decided
that it would be very
efficient if everyone
ate on the same schedule.
And since they wanted
us to work 12 hour days,
you'd have breakfast, go to
work, have your lunch hour,
go to work, have your
dinner, and maybe go home
or go to work again.
Same schedule for
everyone, regardless
of whether your body
needed food then,
regardless of what you
ate in your last meal,
regardless of whether
you were hungry.
Social structures
and the food industry
have reinforced that so that you
eat on a clock, on a calendar,
and your hunger
isn't important, even
though it's the primary signal
of whether you need food.
And if you think about it,
almost every world religion
includes fasting.
Jesus fasted for 40 days
and 40 nights in the desert.
Catholics fast during Lent.
Jews fast on Yom Kippur.
Fasting is a
cornerstone of Ramadan.
So why are we doing all of
these things if it's bad for us?
Well, it's not.
It's about you having control
over your own biology,
for you being in charge
of what your body does
instead of your body telling
you what you have to do.
You can achieve different
levels of consciousness
when you're fasting as well.
There is such a thing
as a spiritual fast,
and there's such a
thing as a working fast.
So fasting done in
the right way can
improve your mental
performance, and fasting
done in an entirely
different way
can improve your awareness
of the world around you.
But you might not want to do
a spiritual fast in the middle
of a high-pressure
workday because it's not
going to work very well.
What I want you
to do is to start
with a 16-hour fast,
which sounds really scary,
except what does that mean?
Let's say you have a
slightly early dinner, dinner
at 6 o'clock, and then
you don't eat a snack
before you go to bed.
And you wake up at 6:00
AM the next morning.
That was 12 hours.
So you need to wait until
10:00 AM to have breakfast.
You can put breakfast
off for a couple hours
and have an earlier dinner.
There.
You did a 16-hour fast.
Just a 16-hour fast
done three times a week
can help you become
metabolically flexible.
Studies show that a 24-hour
fast can increase your growth
hormone levels so you get fat
loss and more tissue healing.
But I do want you to be
cautious with longer fasts going
beyond 24 hours.
Studies show that those are
beneficial for high blood
pressure, and they can
amplify the effectiveness
of chemotherapy in
cancer patients.
But if you have certain
health problems,
it could weaken your heart or
suppress your immune system.
For most of us, though, you
can do up to a three-day
fast once you've learned
how your body feels
and you'll be all right.
One of the things that you don't
hear about in a lot of books
on fasting is the fact
that your body stores
a ton of toxins in your fat.
Some of these are
man-made toxins.
Some of these are toxins that
come from your digestion.
And if you melt a lot of fat
with intermittent fasting,
all those toxins get
released, and that's
why I want you to take activated
charcoal when you're fasting,
especially if you go
over a 24-hour fast.
The other thing that happens
when you fast is your body
starts to lose minerals, and
minerals are the cornerstone
of how your body makes energy.
So I want you to include
minerals during your fast.
The easiest way to do this
is to drink black coffee
with added minerals.
Normal coffee doesn't
have minerals.
You can also add sea salt
or electrolyte powder
as long as there's no sugar and
no protein in it to whatever
you're drinking during
a fast, and then
your fast becomes easier
to do, and you don't
become depleted in minerals.
And if those
electrolytes in your body
fall too low when you're
fasting, you can get sick.
You could even require
hospitalization.
If you're going to fast for
more than probably five days,
but certainly more than
10 days, you really
want to have a doctor
supervising you
because if your sodium and
potassium levels get off,
you can have problems.
But that pinch of salt in
water can change everything.
You want to break your fast
with an anti-inflammatory meal.
Some part of you is
going to be tempted
to say, well, I just fasted for
the first time for 24 hours.
I think I'll go have
nachos, pizza, and beer,
and that's not how to do it.
You want to give yourself
high-nutrient foods
so your body can go in and
rebuild the systems that it's
still rebuilding.
I also want you to regularly
change the duration and style
of your fast.
If you do the same
fast every single day,
the body just gets used to it.
If some days you go longer, some
days you don't fast at all, you
maintain metabolic flexibility.
I make it a point to at
least once, and sometimes
two or three times a
week, have breakfast,
and I'll have breakfast with
my kids on a Saturday morning.
And I do that very specifically
because I want my body
to not count on there always
being or always not being
food at any one time.
It makes me a
stronger human being.
The other thing that
intermittent fasting
does for you is
it makes your body
stronger by helping you
cycle in and out of lipolysis
and ketosis.
Lipolysis is fat burning
mode and ketosis is using
fat to make energy in the body.
Even a 12-hour intermittent
fast three times
a week can slightly raise
your ketosis levels,
but I like it if you
can get up to 16 hours
at least three times a week.
Your body loves
consistency, and it
wants to make you do
less work to survive
in a world that's consistent.
So your job is to send
that signal to your body
that the world just
isn't consistent,
and that way your body will
reconfigure and rebuild
itself to thrive in that world,
and that makes you a biohacker.
I want you to sit down and
think about a fasting window.
Pick a schedule that
makes sense to you
and that you can sustain.
If you have a really
intense Monday,
maybe that's not the day to
start intermittent fasting.
But once you learn how
to intermittent fast,
you will probably
realize like most people
that skipping breakfast
gives you more mental focus
than eating
breakfast, and you may
decide that's your fasting day.
But you've got to learn
how your body feels.
The other thing you can do
that changes everything is you
can finish eating before
the sun goes down.
And this can be
hard to do if you
live in the far north in
winter, but do your best to have
an earlier dinner,
and that alone
can change how much
weight you lose
and how hungry you
are the next day.
And some people say you can
only have water during a fast
because mice only had water
in this study or that study,
but that's not how it works.
There are things you can
take during your fast
that will radically
reduce your hunger
and make it very easy,
as in painless, to fast.
For example,
there's three things
you can have during a fast
that make it easier to fast.
One of them is black
coffee with minerals.
If you do that, especially if
the coffee doesn't have mold
in it, you're going to
find that magically,
you just feel better.
And that's because
the amount of caffeine
in two small cups
of coffee doubles
your production of
ketones since one
of the things that
happens when you fast is,
well, your body makes ketones.
It starts burning fat.
Well, you might as well
double its ability to do that.
That's why black coffee
during a fast is amazing.
The second thing
you could do is you
could add a little bit of butter
or ghee along with C8 MCT oil
into your high-mineral coffee.
And if you blend that
together for 20 seconds,
you'll find that you feel very
different during your fast.
And some people say,
but there's calories.
As we already know, not all
calories do the same things.
Fat calories do
not raise insulin
and they don't raise the other
compound called mTOR that gets
raised when you eat.
So a way of giving your
body a little boost of
ketosis so that it
feels really good.
I was inspired by a
trip to Tibet right
as I was at the beginning
of creating the biohacking
movement.
I'd already lost the 100
pounds that I've lost,
but my health wasn't where it
is today, and I went to Tibet.
And I was at 18,000 feet
elevation and decided
to go on what's called a kora.
This is a 26-mile walk
around the holiest mountain
in the world.
It's very remote.
It takes about five days
in a four-wheel drive
even to get to this mountain.
I was feeling really bad.
It was 10 degrees below zero.
My knee was hurting.
I've had three surgeries on it.
My energy was flagging,
and I honestly
didn't know if I was
going to make it.
And it was past tourist season,
so there were only 10 people
on the whole mountain.
Not the best situation to be in.
And I went into
a little mud hut,
and a woman maybe
half my height gave me
a bowl of yak butter tea.
And it was the
first time I had it.
And I had heard about
it, but what is it?
It's tea blended
with yak butter.
And I drank it, and about
five minutes later it
was like someone
turned on the lights.
I felt better than
I had in months,
even though I was at
a high enough altitude
where my brain shouldn't
have been working at all.
And I had this amazing
sense of wonder.
Instead of wanting to
just lay down and gasp,
I kind of wanted to dance.
And that's what caused me
to come back and test butter
and MCT oil in tea and coffee
to find a recipe that would
turn my brain on that way.
Well, when you're
fasting, if you
turn your brain on by putting
some grass-fed butter, C8 MCT
oil, and coffee
together, blending it
for at least 20 seconds,
you will absolutely just not
think about food.
And at the end of
the day, you're like,
I just went 24 hours
because I skipped lunch,
because I didn't think about it.
Studies show that 1/3 of the
thoughts most people have
every day are about,
what's for lunch?
Imagine if you turned
those thoughts off.
What else would your
brain be thinking about?
Probably something more
useful for you and the world
around you.
So get your grass-fed butter
or ghee, some C8 MCT oil,
and some coffee full of
trace minerals and no mold,
and blend them together
for at least 20 seconds,
and you will not
believe the difference
in the quality of your day.
One of the other reasons
that that recipe works
so well during a fast is
that ketones provide energy.
They help to regulate
your circadian
rhythm, which makes it easier
to go to sleep at night.
Ketones stimulate
something called
CCK, which is a hormone that
tells you to stop eating,
and they turn off
ghrelin production,
and ghrelin's the one
that says, I'm hungry.
So all of a sudden, that
little cup of special coffee
that's blended together has
this profound effect on you.
And then fasting went from
being hard to being easy,
and you were more focused,
and your brain was happier.
MCT oil itself converts
into ketones in your body.
And since caffeine
doubles ketone production,
it's almost like you're on the
second day of a fast instead
of the first day
because you accelerated
the benefits of fasting.
This idea absolutely
does anger the fasting
purists who believe you must
suffer through a water-only
fast.
That is simply not how it works
when you look at the science.
One of the other
things fasting does
is fasting puts stress
on your gut bacteria.
When your gut
bacteria get stressed,
they make an endotoxin called
LPS, or Lipopolysaccharide,
that causes brain fog and
systemic inflammation.
This is why it's so important to
take a little bit of activated
charcoal during your fast.
Activated charcoal extends
lifespan in animal studies
and it sticks to that LPS toxin.
But excessive fasting can
knock out good gut bacteria
because if they
don't have anything
to eat for a long period
of time, they'll go away.
So what can you do
during an extended
fast to maintain good
gut bacteria, or even
during an intermittent fast?
You would use prebiotic
soluble fiber powders
like acacia gum, guar gum,
or large arabinogalactan.
These are available in
prebiotic supplements,
and those can help you
maintain a healthy gut
lining during a fast.
You don't digest them,
but your microbiome can.
It breaks those fibers
into ketogenic fats
that suppress hunger, and
it doesn't break a fast.
What would happen if you put
prebiotic fiber in your coffee
along with butter and MCT
oil and you blended it up?
You wouldn't be
hungry and you would
reduce your risk of
all sorts of things,
and you'd save time and
money in the morning as well.
This is one of the reasons that
intermittent fasting has just
taken off because
it works that well,
and the pain is gone when
you have those fasting hacks.
There's another kind of
fast that I've taught about,
and it's called protein fasting.
And this is where you still
eat, but one day per week
you have less than 15
grams of protein in total.
That's because one of the things
you do when you're fasting
is you lower insulin levels
and you lower a compound
called mTOR.
mTOR is a compound that tells
your body, it's time to grow,
so it'll grow muscles
and things like that.
But if you always have
protein and always
have carbohydrate, which is
the biggest increaser of mTOR,
then your body's
always in grow mode,
and you're much more
likely to eventually get
cancer or inflammation.
So the idea of
intermittent fasting
is you suppress mTOR when
you're intermittent fasting,
and then when you
eat, eat good protein,
and then you have good results.
The other thing that's so
under-talked about in the world
of fasting is that what
you ate in the meal
before determines how hard
your fast is going to be.
Low-quality foods,
plant-based meat substitutes,
and all of the chemicals,
omega 6 fats, a lot of grains,
even a lot of natural
inflammatory things
cause your body to have
cravings after you eat.
So if you find a
fast is unbearable,
you're probably
eating something that
didn't work for your biology
in the meals before it.
In fact, for the
rest of your life,
if you feel hungry
before three or four
hours after your last meal,
it's because you ate kryptonite,
or it's because you just
didn't eat enough food.
You didn't eat enough
fat or enough protein.
Or maybe you just didn't
have enough energy in it.
This is especially
a problem for women.
A lot of women are just
eating very small meals,
but they're working out
like professional athletes.
So if you exercise a lot,
you actually need more food.
And if you eat too little
and exercise too much,
you will hold on to fat.
The number of people
who've realized, wow,
if I eat more and
exercise less I
lose weight, yeah,
that can happen.
And sometimes you
can also over-fast.
So as you're going
through all of this,
understand you don't have
to fast every single day.
In fact, it might not
even be good for you.
If you want to get
more technical,
you could test
your ketone levels
to see how well your fast
is putting you in ketosis
if you're trying to lose weight.
And you can get a little meter
that takes a drop of blood
and measures it.
The magic number is 0.48
millimoles per liter
in order to know
you're in ketosis.
What you will find if you have
a metabolism like most people
is that one cup of that
high-mineral coffee
blended with butter and MCT
oil can raise your ketones
to that level.
A lot of people also ask, what
about exercise and fasting?
Should I exercise
when I've fasted?
What does the timing look like?
Well, you get more
benefits from exercise
if you start with a mild
fast before you exercise
and then you break
the fast right
after you finish exercising.
The reason for this is
that if you're fasting,
it suppresses mTOR.
If you drink coffee,
And if you exercise,
it suppresses mTOR.
Remember, mTOR is that compound
that wants your body to build.
So when it's really,
really suppressed,
then after the exercise, you
immediately have some protein,
some fat, and
probably some carbs
unless you're on a keto diet.
Then magically, the mTOR
levels just explode.
And when that happens, you
put on muscles more quickly
than if you had
exercised and not eaten
at the end of the fast.
I don't recommend
long-term endurance events
when you're fasted.
That's just very
stressful on the body.
You want to have a mix
of ketones and glucose
for something like that.
And it's so important
that after you exercise,
your body's primed to
repair and build muscle,
and you need to eat.
If you don't eat
after you exercise,
especially fasted exercise,
you will get a 48-hour rise
in cortisol.
This is why you'll
never see me exercise
and then not eat afterwards.
And if I'm on a long three-day
fast, I don't exercise.
I'll go for a walk, but I'm
not going to lift stuff.
You might be able to do it.
It might even feel
good to do that.
But the reason it feels good is
that your body is pumping out
adrenaline and cortisol in
ways that are not good for you.
So be kind to yourself.
Fasting is a stressor.
Exercise is a stressor.
If you're going to
stack those things,
have a steak when you're done.
Have some eggs.
You'll be fine.
The other thing
that's interesting
is that raising insulin
and raising something
called IGF, which is
Insulin-like Growth Factor,
equals building more muscle.
Again, you fasted
and you exercised.
You ate protein, and this time
you ate carbs with the protein.
More insulin, more muscle.
So mTOR and insulin
equals muscle,
but you don't want high
mTOR and high insulin
all the time because
that equals cancer.
The magic number is within 30
minutes of an intense workout,
you want protein.
And if you can have it before
that, it's even better.
The other thing that's
really important for you,
when you're fasting,
whether it's an intermittent
fast or especially a
longer fast, go for a walk,
just a 20-minute short
walk, dealing in sunshine,
ideally without
sunglasses on so that you
get some natural
lighting into your body.
And the reason you go for a walk
is that lymphatic circulation's
important, and your
body can't remove
lymph, which is part of
your waste removal system,
without your muscles
being activated.
So walking or maybe jumping
on a little trampoline,
but something that mixes
that up because you're
getting rid of more
toxins during a fast.
So you don't want to
just lay on a couch.
That's not the
best way to do it.
One of the things that happens
if you're doing a longer fast
especially is that you may
have a spiritual experience
that you didn't plan on.
Give yourself permission
to experience that.
You can actually
find joy in fasting.
And fasting just isn't about
overcoming or battling pain.
It's about noticing the
signals from your body
and then noticing how absurd
it is that your body is just
screaming for food when
you know that you have
two months of no food
before you would die,
and that you are in
zero risk of dying,
but it really feels like that.
And just realize, I
wonder what else my body
is lying to me about?
Because you know that
skipping hamburgers at lunch
is simply not important,
but it feels so important.
So a physical fast is going to
cleanse the body of chemical
impurities, but a
spiritual fast can
help cleanse your consciousness
of emotional baggage,
especially around food.
We all have-- we call
them spiritual toxins.
And we've been programmed
that if we don't have food,
our body will go into starvation
mode, which is why people
justified seven meals a day.
And starvation to your body
means you're going to die.
And a lot of us,
including me, have learned
to eat when we're lonely.
The reason I know so
much about fasting
is that I decided I was
going to face these head on.
So I hired a shaman to
drop me off in a cave,
and I fasted for four days
with no people and no food
so that even if
I had a meltdown,
it would be something
I could deal with.
And that's what
allows me to talk
about fasting both as
a spiritual practice
and as a biochemical
practice as a biohacker.
One of the best
things you can do
is keep a journal to
record your observations.
And make sure that you're
good at intermittent fasting
before you do a
longer spiritual fast.
This is also really important.
Women are not little
men, and nature
wants to protect women's
bodies as a safe space
for having babies.
And you don't have
to think about that.
You don't want that.
This is what your cells do when
you're not paying attention.
So daily intermittent
fasting can pose a challenge,
especially for women.
Women and men usually
need different amounts
of intermittent fasting.
And a low-fat diet
or over-fasting
can cause epigenetic
changes and chemical
changes that tell your
body, there is a famine.
Don't reproduce.
So for women, it's
a good practice
to do intermittent
fasting every other day,
and to do it with butter,
trace mineral-rich coffee,
and MCT oil.
And those fats tell your body
that there is not a famine,
there's enough energy, so that
the stress response is lower.
And on the days where you're
not doing intermittent fasting,
make sure you have protein
and fat in the morning.
You could just add collagen
into your coffee with the oils
and you would see a difference.
Some women do very well
eating normally all week long
and just doing one
24-hour fast per week.
So maybe Wednesday, you
just don't eat on Wednesday.
It sounds impossible,
but check this out.
You have an early
dinner on Tuesday night.
Wednesday, you skip breakfast.
Have your coffee with butter,
MCT, and your minerals.
And then lunch comes around
and you say, you know,
I think I'll skip lunch.
And then you have dinner.
You actually went 24 hours.
You just had to skip two
meals one day a week.
You can do that.
And women also do
better with more carbs
than men do on a daily basis.
And another thing.
If you are or think
you might be pregnant,
that is not when
you want to fast.
That is when you create a
high-nourishment environment
for babies.
And if you're a woman who
is either in menopause
or in perimenopause, your
body's response to fasting
could be very different.
After menopause, you'll
probably do very well
on intermittent fasting.
In perimenopause, try
shorter intermittent fasts,
and don't do them
back to back until you
know they're working
for you because things
can change on a weekly basis.
And while you're at it, if
you're having a hard time
intermittent fasting,
you want to see a doctor
and get your hormone levels
and your thyroid levels tested.
And recent research shows
intermittent fasting increases
something called
kisspeptin, which
is a peptide that stimulates
ovaries and adrenals to make
estrogen and progesterone.
And that can actually help
to ease perimenopause.
So sometimes it's great,
but if it doesn't work
you need to shift things up.
There's a couple other kinds
of fasts that are possible.
Fasting means to go without.
So you could try the
more spiritual types
of fast, a dopamine fast, which
is when you fast from anything
that's stimulating for
a day or a couple days,
whether it's social media,
whether it's spicy foods,
even from people.
It's just slowing down so
that everything is calm.
You can also fast from
hate, a whole day where
you're not going to
hate anyone or anything.
That's one of the hardest
spiritual fasts you can do.
And the final thing I want
you to take away from this
is the fasting trap, which
is the same as the keto trap.
It's the same as the vegan trap.
And the idea is that if
something works well,
absolutely more must be better.
We are wired as human beings
to know if something's good,
always double down on that.
Fasting is not like that.
The keto diet is not like that.
If something works, you need
to use the right amount of it
to work.
You want to learn
to be flexible.
There's no need
to judge yourself
because you didn't make a
fast that you had as a goal
or because you did something
you didn't plan to do.
Just be flexible.
If you find yourself
becoming too rigid,
you can actually go
on a perfection fast,
which is one of my favorites.
And this is where you
deliberately go without fasting
and maybe even eat something
that you know isn't perfect.
And you show yourself
and you show your body,
you're not going to die if
you don't fast perfectly.
I want you to fast your way.
And when you fast this way,
what you're going to find
is that, you know what?
Today I thought I
was going to fast,
but I really don't
feel that good.
I'm going to have breakfast.
And there's nothing
wrong with that.
So you can't fail at fasting.
It's a constant experiment
based on, how tired am I?
How much did I work out?
How stressed am I?
What does my day look like?
You are learning as a
biohacker to choose the foods
and when to eat them
so that you always
feel like you have more than
whatever it takes to handle
what life is bringing your way.
I'm Dave Asprey, and
this is "Biohacking."